docs/CONTRACTS.md, before:

# TEMPL Contracts

## Overview
Solidity 0.8.23. Core contract is `contracts/TEMPL.sol` with shared errors in `contracts/TemplErrors.sol`. See `README.md#architecture` for the bigger picture; this document reflects the exact on-chain behavior and interfaces.

### Module Layout
- `TemplBase`: shared storage layout, immutables, counters, events, and modifiers. All other modules inherit it, so audits can focus on a single storage contract.
- `TemplMembership`: membership lifecycle (`purchaseAccess`, claims, view helpers) and accounting for the member pool.
- `TemplTreasury`: governance-callable treasury/config/priest handlers and their internal helpers.
- `TemplGovernance`: proposal creation, voting/quorum logic, execution router, and governance view helpers.
- `TEMPL`: thin concrete contract wiring the constructor requirements (`priest`, `protocolFeeRecipient`, `token`, `entryFee`) and exposing the payable `receive` hook.

## Economic Model
- 30% Burn: sent to `0x000000000000000000000000000000000000dEaD`.
- 30% Treasury: DAO-controlled; includes entry-fee share plus any tokens/ETH donated directly to the contract.
- 30% Member Pool: claimable by existing members via `claimMemberPool()`.
- 10% Protocol Fee: forwarded to immutable `protocolFeeRecipient`.

Per new member, claimable reward per existing member is `floor(30% / (n-1))` and any remainder is carried forward in `memberRewardRemainder`.

### Member Pool Mechanics
- Accrual: Each purchase increases `memberPoolBalance` and `cumulativeMemberRewards`; members track a `rewardSnapshot` at their join time and on claim.
- Claim: `claimMemberPool()` transfers the unclaimed delta and advances the snapshot. Reverts with `NoRewardsToClaim` if zero or `InsufficientPoolBalance` if not enough distributable tokens (excludes remainder).
- Donations: Anyone may donate ETH or ERC‑20 to the contract. Governance may move donations and the treasury share, but member pool balances are not withdrawable except via disbanding into the pool.

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    participant NewMember
    participant TEMPL
    participant ExistingMember
    NewMember->>TEMPL: purchaseAccess()
    TEMPL-->>ExistingMember: increase cumulative rewards
    ExistingMember->>TEMPL: claimMemberPool()
    TEMPL-->>ExistingMember: transfer claimable
```

## Governance
- One member = one vote; votes are changeable until eligibility windows close.
- One live proposal per address: creating a second while the first is active reverts `ActiveProposalExists`. The slot is cleared on execution. After expiry, attempting to create a new proposal clears the old slot before proceeding.
- Voting period bounds: 7–30 days (`0` means default 7 days).
- Execution: Any address may call `executeProposal(id)`. Execution is atomic and non‑reentrant.
- Typed proposals only (no arbitrary calls). The allowed actions are:
  - `setPausedDAO(bool)` — pause/unpause membership purchasing.
  - `updateConfigDAO(address,uint256)` — update entry fee when `_entryFee > 0`. Changing token is disabled (`_token` must be `address(0)` or the current token), else `TokenChangeDisabled`.
  - `withdrawTreasuryDAO(address,address,uint256,string)` — withdraw a specific amount of any asset (access token, other ERC‑20, or ETH with `address(0)`).
  - `changePriestDAO(address)` — change the priest address via governance.
  - `disbandTreasuryDAO()` / `disbandTreasuryDAO(address)` — move the full available balance of the access token into the member pool equally across all members.

### Quorum and Eligibility
- Quorum threshold: `quorumPercent = 33` (33% yes votes of `eligibleVoters`).
- On creation: proposer auto‑YES, `eligibleVoters = memberList.length`. If quorum is immediately satisfied, `quorumReachedAt` is set and `endTime` is reset to `now + executionDelayAfterQuorum`.
- Before quorum: any member (including those who joined after creation) may vote; `eligibleVoters` tracks the current member count.
- After quorum: voting eligibility freezes; only members who joined before `quorumReachedAt` may vote. Late joiners are rejected with `JoinedAfterProposal`.
- Execution requires a simple majority (`yesVotes > noVotes`) and:
  - if quorum is required: that quorum has been reached and the delay `executionDelayAfterQuorum = 7 days` has elapsed; otherwise reverts with `QuorumNotReached` or `ExecutionDelayActive`.
  - priest exception: `createProposalDisbandTreasury(...)` proposed by `priest` is quorum‑exempt and respects only its `endTime`.

### Proposal Types (create functions)
- `createProposalSetPaused(bool paused, uint256 votingPeriod)`
- `createProposalUpdateConfig(uint256 newEntryFee, uint256 votingPeriod)`
- `createProposalWithdrawTreasury(address token, address recipient, uint256 amount, string reason, uint256 votingPeriod)`
- `createProposalChangePriest(address newPriest, uint256 votingPeriod)`
- `createProposalDisbandTreasury(uint256 votingPeriod)` and overloaded
  `createProposalDisbandTreasury(address token, uint256 votingPeriod)` (execution succeeds only when the token equals the access token; mismatches revert during execution).

Note: Proposal metadata (title/description) is not stored on‑chain. Keep human‑readable text in XMTP group messages alongside the on‑chain proposal id.

### Security Notes
- Reentrancy: `purchaseAccess`, `claimMemberPool`, and `executeProposal` are non‑reentrant.
- Purchase guard: `purchaseAccess` disallows calls from the DAO address itself (`InvalidSender`).
- Pausing: only blocks `purchaseAccess`; proposing and voting continue while paused.

## User‑Facing Functions and Views
- `purchaseAccess()` — one‑time purchase; splits fee 30/30/30/10 via `safeTransferFrom`. Requires balance ≥ entry fee and contract not paused.
- `vote(uint256 proposalId, bool support)` — cast or change a vote until eligible; emits `VoteCast`.
- `executeProposal(uint256 proposalId)` — performs the allowlisted action; emits `ProposalExecuted` and action‑specific events.
- `claimMemberPool()` — withdraw accrued rewards; emits `MemberPoolClaimed`.
- `getActiveProposals()` — returns IDs of active proposals.
- `getActiveProposalsPaginated(uint256 offset, uint256 limit)` — returns `(ids, hasMore)`; `limit` in [1,100], else `LimitOutOfRange`.
- `getProposal(uint256 id)` — returns `(proposer, yesVotes, noVotes, endTime, executed, passed)` with `passed` computed according to quorum/delay rules.
- `hasVoted(uint256 id, address voter)` — returns `(voted, support)`.
- `hasAccess(address user)` — returns membership status.
- `getPurchaseDetails(address user)` — returns `(purchased, timestamp, blockNum)`.
- `getTreasuryInfo()` — returns `(treasury, memberPool, totalReceived, totalBurnedAmount, totalProtocolFees, protocolAddress)` where
  - `treasury` is the UI‑facing available access‑token balance: `currentBalance(accessToken) - memberPoolBalance` (includes donations), and
  - `totalReceived` tracks only entry‑fee allocations.
- `getConfig()` — returns `(token, fee, isPaused, purchases, treasury, pool)`.
- `getMemberCount()` — number of members; `getVoteWeight(address)` — 1 if member else 0.

## State, Events, Errors
- Key immutables: `protocolFeeRecipient`, `accessToken`. Priest is changeable via governance.
- Key variables: `entryFee` (≥10 and multiple of 10), `paused`, `treasuryBalance` (tracks fee‑sourced tokens only), `memberPoolBalance`, counters (`totalBurned`, `totalToTreasury`, `totalToMemberPool`, `totalToProtocol`).
- Quorum settings: `quorumPercent = 33`, `executionDelayAfterQuorum = 7 days` (not changeable by governance).
- Events:
  - `AccessPurchased(purchaser,totalAmount,burnedAmount,treasuryAmount,memberPoolAmount,protocolAmount,timestamp,blockNumber,purchaseId)`
  - `MemberPoolClaimed(member,amount,timestamp)`
  - `ProposalCreated(proposalId,proposer,endTime)`
  - `VoteCast(proposalId,voter,support,timestamp)`
  - `ProposalExecuted(proposalId,success,returnData)`
  - `TreasuryAction(proposalId,token,recipient,amount,description)`
  - `ConfigUpdated(token,entryFee)`
  - `ContractPaused(isPaused)`
  - `TreasuryDisbanded(proposalId,amount,perMember,remainder)`
  - `PriestChanged(oldPriest,newPriest)`
 - Custom errors (from `TemplErrors.sol`): `NotMember`, `NotDAO`, `ContractPausedError`, `AlreadyPurchased`, `InsufficientBalance`, `ActiveProposalExists`, `VotingPeriodTooShort`, `VotingPeriodTooLong`, `InvalidProposal`, `VotingEnded`, `JoinedAfterProposal`, `VotingNotEnded`, `AlreadyExecuted`, `ProposalNotPassed`, `ProposalExecutionFailed`, `InvalidRecipient`, `AmountZero`, `InsufficientTreasuryBalance`, `NoTreasuryFunds`, `EntryFeeTooSmall`, `InvalidEntryFee`, `NoRewardsToClaim`, `InsufficientPoolBalance`, `LimitOutOfRange`, `InvalidSender`, `InvalidCallData`, `TokenChangeDisabled`, `NoMembers`, `QuorumNotReached`, `ExecutionDelayActive`.

## Flows
### Membership Purchase
```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    participant User
    participant TEMPL
    participant Burn
    participant Treasury
    participant MemberPool
    participant Protocol
    User->>TEMPL: purchaseAccess()
    TEMPL->>Burn: 30% burn
    TEMPL->>Treasury: 30% entry‑fee share
    TEMPL->>MemberPool: 30% claimable
    TEMPL->>Protocol: 10% fee
    TEMPL-->>User: Membership granted
```

### Proposal Execution
```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    participant Member
    participant TEMPL
    Member->>TEMPL: executeProposal(id)
    alt passed + quorum satisfied
        TEMPL-->>Member: perform typed action (pause/config/withdraw/disband)
    else not eligible
        TEMPL-->>Member: revert (QuorumNotReached/ExecutionDelayActive/ProposalNotPassed)
    end
```

## Configuration & Deployment
- Constructor: `TEMPL(address priest, address protocolFeeRecipient, address token, uint256 entryFee)`; all addresses must be non‑zero. `entryFee` must be ≥10 and divisible by 10.
- Env for `scripts/deploy.js` (priest defaults to deployer): `PRIEST_ADDRESS`, `PROTOCOL_FEE_RECIPIENT` (required), `TOKEN_ADDRESS` (required), `ENTRY_FEE` (required), `BASESCAN_API_KEY` (optional).
- Commands:
  - Compile/tests: `npm run compile`, `npm test`, `npm run slither`.
  - Deploy example: `npx hardhat run scripts/deploy.js --network base`.

## Invariants & Assumptions
- No arbitrary external call execution; proposals are typed and restricted to internal handlers.
- Treasury movements only via approved proposals; member pool is preserved except when explicitly increased via disband.
- If quorum is never reached, proposals cannot be executed even after the voting period.
- Access token should be a standard ERC‑20 without transfer fees/taxes to ensure exact splits.

## Tests
The Hardhat suite exercises: fee splits and counters, reentrancy guards, one‑member/one‑vote rules (proposer auto‑YES), post‑quorum voting eligibility, typed DAO actions (pause/config/withdraw/changePriest/disband), proposal pagination, and all public views.

Commit message:

fix(contracts): sync quorum gating and disband payouts

docs/CONTRACTS.md, after:

# TEMPL Contracts

## Overview
Solidity 0.8.23. Core contract is `contracts/TEMPL.sol` with shared errors in `contracts/TemplErrors.sol`. See `README.md#architecture` for the bigger picture; this document reflects the exact on-chain behavior and interfaces.

### Module Layout
- `TemplBase`: shared storage layout, immutables, counters, events, and modifiers. All other modules inherit it, so audits can focus on a single storage contract.
- `TemplMembership`: membership lifecycle (`purchaseAccess`, claims, view helpers) and accounting for the member pool.
- `TemplTreasury`: governance-callable treasury/config/priest handlers and their internal helpers.
- `TemplGovernance`: proposal creation, voting/quorum logic, execution router, and governance view helpers.
- `TEMPL`: thin concrete contract wiring the constructor requirements (`priest`, `protocolFeeRecipient`, `token`, `entryFee`) and exposing the payable `receive` hook.

## Economic Model
- 30% Burn: sent to `0x000000000000000000000000000000000000dEaD`.
- 30% Treasury: DAO-controlled. The `treasuryBalance` counter tracks the entry-fee share; additional tokens/ETH donated directly to the contract are still available to governance via the contract’s free balance (`balanceOf - memberPoolBalance`).
- 30% Member Pool: claimable by existing members via `claimMemberPool()`.
- 10% Protocol Fee: forwarded to immutable `protocolFeeRecipient`.

Per new member, claimable reward per existing member is `floor(30% / (n-1))` and any remainder is carried forward in `memberRewardRemainder`.

### Member Pool Mechanics
- Accrual: Each purchase increases `memberPoolBalance` and `cumulativeMemberRewards`; members track a `rewardSnapshot` at their join time and on claim.
- Claim: `claimMemberPool()` transfers the unclaimed delta and advances the snapshot. Reverts with `NoRewardsToClaim` if zero or `InsufficientPoolBalance` if not enough distributable tokens (excludes remainder).
- Donations: Anyone may donate ETH or ERC‑20 to the contract. Governance may move donations and the entry-fee treasury share, but member pool balances are not withdrawable except via disbanding into the pool.
- Remainders: Any indivisible leftovers from reward calculations accumulate in `memberRewardRemainder` and are rolled into the next distribution (purchase or disband) so the pool eventually captures every token.

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    participant NewMember
    participant TEMPL
    participant ExistingMember
    NewMember->>TEMPL: purchaseAccess()
    TEMPL-->>ExistingMember: increase cumulative rewards
    ExistingMember->>TEMPL: claimMemberPool()
    TEMPL-->>ExistingMember: transfer claimable
```

## Governance
- One member = one vote; votes are changeable until eligibility windows close.
- One live proposal per address: creating a second while the first is active reverts `ActiveProposalExists`. The slot is cleared on execution. After expiry, attempting to create a new proposal clears the old slot before proceeding.
- Voting period bounds: 7–30 days (`0` means default 7 days).
- Execution: Any address may call `executeProposal(id)`. Execution is atomic and non‑reentrant.
- Typed proposals only (no arbitrary calls). The allowed actions are:
  - `setPausedDAO(bool)` — pause/unpause membership purchasing.
  - `updateConfigDAO(address,uint256)` — update entry fee when `_entryFee > 0`. Changing token is disabled (`_token` must be `address(0)` or the current token), else `TokenChangeDisabled`.
  - `withdrawTreasuryDAO(address,address,uint256,string)` — withdraw a specific amount of any asset (access token, other ERC‑20, or ETH with `address(0)`).
  - `changePriestDAO(address)` — change the priest address via governance.
  - `disbandTreasuryDAO()` / `disbandTreasuryDAO(address)` — move the full available balance of the access token into the member pool with per-member integer division; any remainder rolls into `memberRewardRemainder` for future payouts.

### Quorum and Eligibility
- Quorum threshold: `quorumPercent = 33` (33% yes votes of `eligibleVoters`).
- On creation: proposer auto‑YES, `eligibleVoters = memberList.length`. If quorum is immediately satisfied, `quorumReachedAt` is set and `endTime` is reset to `now + executionDelayAfterQuorum`.
- Before quorum: any member (including those who joined after creation) may vote; `eligibleVoters` tracks the current member count.
- After quorum: voting eligibility freezes; only members who joined before `quorumReachedAt` may vote. Late joiners are rejected with `JoinedAfterProposal`. Because Ethereum timestamps are per block, joins mined in the same block that reached quorum remain eligible.
- Execution requires a simple majority (`yesVotes > noVotes`) and:
  - if quorum is required: that quorum has been reached and the delay `executionDelayAfterQuorum = 7 days` has elapsed; otherwise reverts with `QuorumNotReached` or `ExecutionDelayActive`.
  - priest exception: `createProposalDisbandTreasury(...)` proposed by `priest` is quorum‑exempt and respects only its `endTime`.

### Proposal Types (create functions)
- `createProposalSetPaused(bool paused, uint256 votingPeriod)`
- `createProposalUpdateConfig(uint256 newEntryFee, uint256 votingPeriod)`
- `createProposalWithdrawTreasury(address token, address recipient, uint256 amount, string reason, uint256 votingPeriod)`
- `createProposalChangePriest(address newPriest, uint256 votingPeriod)`
- `createProposalDisbandTreasury(uint256 votingPeriod)` and overloaded
  `createProposalDisbandTreasury(address token, uint256 votingPeriod)` (execution succeeds only when the token equals the access token; mismatches revert during execution).

Note: Proposal metadata (title/description) is not stored on‑chain. Keep human‑readable text in XMTP group messages alongside the on‑chain proposal id.

### Security Notes
- Reentrancy: `purchaseAccess`, `claimMemberPool`, and `executeProposal` are non‑reentrant.
- Purchase guard: `purchaseAccess` disallows calls from the DAO address itself (`InvalidSender`).
- Pausing: only blocks `purchaseAccess`; proposing and voting continue while paused.

## User‑Facing Functions and Views
- `purchaseAccess()` — one‑time purchase; splits fee 30/30/30/10 via `safeTransferFrom`. Requires balance ≥ entry fee and contract not paused.
- `vote(uint256 proposalId, bool support)` — cast or change a vote until eligible; emits `VoteCast`.
- `executeProposal(uint256 proposalId)` — performs the allowlisted action; emits `ProposalExecuted` and action‑specific events.
- `claimMemberPool()` — withdraw accrued rewards; emits `MemberPoolClaimed`.
- `getActiveProposals()` — returns IDs of active proposals.
- `getActiveProposalsPaginated(uint256 offset, uint256 limit)` — returns `(ids, hasMore)`; `limit` in [1,100], else `LimitOutOfRange`.
- `getProposal(uint256 id)` — returns `(proposer, yesVotes, noVotes, endTime, executed, passed)` with `passed` computed according to quorum/delay rules.
- `hasVoted(uint256 id, address voter)` — returns `(voted, support)`.
- `hasAccess(address user)` — returns membership status.
- `getPurchaseDetails(address user)` — returns `(purchased, timestamp, blockNum)`.
- `getTreasuryInfo()` — returns `(treasury, memberPool, totalReceived, totalBurnedAmount, totalProtocolFees, protocolAddress)` where
  - `treasury` is the UI‑facing available access‑token balance: `currentBalance(accessToken) - memberPoolBalance` (includes donations), and
  - `totalReceived` tracks only entry‑fee allocations.
- `getConfig()` — returns `(token, fee, isPaused, purchases, treasury, pool)`.
- `getMemberCount()` — number of members; `getVoteWeight(address)` — 1 if member else 0.

## State, Events, Errors
- Key immutables: `protocolFeeRecipient`, `accessToken`. Priest is changeable via governance.
- Key variables: `entryFee` (≥10 and multiple of 10), `paused`, `treasuryBalance` (tracks fee‑sourced tokens only), `memberPoolBalance`, counters (`totalBurned`, `totalToTreasury`, `totalToMemberPool`, `totalToProtocol`).
- Quorum settings: `quorumPercent = 33`, `executionDelayAfterQuorum = 7 days` (not changeable by governance).
- Events:
  - `AccessPurchased(purchaser,totalAmount,burnedAmount,treasuryAmount,memberPoolAmount,protocolAmount,timestamp,blockNumber,purchaseId)`
  - `MemberPoolClaimed(member,amount,timestamp)`
  - `ProposalCreated(proposalId,proposer,endTime)`
  - `VoteCast(proposalId,voter,support,timestamp)`
  - `ProposalExecuted(proposalId,success,returnData)`
  - `TreasuryAction(proposalId,token,recipient,amount,description)`
  - `ConfigUpdated(token,entryFee)`
  - `ContractPaused(isPaused)`
  - `TreasuryDisbanded(proposalId,amount,perMember,remainder)`
  - `PriestChanged(oldPriest,newPriest)`
 - Custom errors (from `TemplErrors.sol`): `NotMember`, `NotDAO`, `ContractPausedError`, `AlreadyPurchased`, `InsufficientBalance`, `ActiveProposalExists`, `VotingPeriodTooShort`, `VotingPeriodTooLong`, `InvalidProposal`, `VotingEnded`, `JoinedAfterProposal`, `VotingNotEnded`, `AlreadyExecuted`, `ProposalNotPassed`, `ProposalExecutionFailed`, `InvalidRecipient`, `AmountZero`, `InsufficientTreasuryBalance`, `NoTreasuryFunds`, `EntryFeeTooSmall`, `InvalidEntryFee`, `NoRewardsToClaim`, `InsufficientPoolBalance`, `LimitOutOfRange`, `InvalidSender`, `InvalidCallData`, `TokenChangeDisabled`, `NoMembers`, `QuorumNotReached`, `ExecutionDelayActive`.

## Flows
### Membership Purchase
```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    participant User
    participant TEMPL
    participant Burn
    participant Treasury
    participant MemberPool
    participant Protocol
    User->>TEMPL: purchaseAccess()
    TEMPL->>Burn: 30% burn
    TEMPL->>Treasury: 30% entry‑fee share
    TEMPL->>MemberPool: 30% claimable
    TEMPL->>Protocol: 10% fee
    TEMPL-->>User: Membership granted
```

### Proposal Execution
```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    participant Member
    participant TEMPL
    Member->>TEMPL: executeProposal(id)
    alt passed + quorum satisfied
        TEMPL-->>Member: perform typed action (pause/config/withdraw/disband)
    else not eligible
        TEMPL-->>Member: revert (QuorumNotReached/ExecutionDelayActive/ProposalNotPassed)
    end
```

## Configuration & Deployment
- Constructor: `TEMPL(address priest, address protocolFeeRecipient, address token, uint256 entryFee)`; all addresses must be non‑zero. `entryFee` must be ≥10 and divisible by 10, matching deploy-script validation.
- Env for `scripts/deploy.js` (priest defaults to deployer): `PRIEST_ADDRESS`, `PROTOCOL_FEE_RECIPIENT` (required), `TOKEN_ADDRESS` (required), `ENTRY_FEE` (required), `BASESCAN_API_KEY` (optional).
- Commands:
  - Compile/tests: `npm run compile`, `npm test`, `npm run slither`.
  - Deploy example: `npx hardhat run scripts/deploy.js --network base`.

## Invariants & Assumptions
- No arbitrary external call execution; proposals are typed and restricted to internal handlers.
- Treasury movements only via approved proposals; member pool is preserved except when explicitly increased via disband.
- If quorum is never reached, proposals cannot be executed even after the voting period.
- Access token should be a standard ERC‑20 without transfer fees/taxes to ensure exact splits.

## Tests
The Hardhat suite exercises: fee splits and counters, reentrancy guards, one‑member/one‑vote rules (proposer auto‑YES), post‑quorum voting eligibility, typed DAO actions (pause/config/withdraw/changePriest/disband), proposal pagination, and all public views.
