docs/TEST_LOCALLY.md, before:

# Test Locally (Fast Path)

Spin up the full templ stack—Hardhat chain, Express backend, and React frontend—so you can deploy a templ, verify membership, and run proposals without relying on external services.

## Prerequisites

- Node.js ≥ 22.18.0
- `npm ci` already executed at the repo root
- One terminal per process (or a multiplexer such as tmux)

## 1) Start a local Hardhat chain

Terminal A:

```bash
npm run node
```

Hardhat exposes JSON-RPC on `http://127.0.0.1:8545` and pre-funds 20 deterministic accounts.

## 2) Configure & start the backend

Create `backend/.env`:

```env
RPC_URL=http://127.0.0.1:8545
ALLOWED_ORIGINS=http://localhost:5173
BACKEND_SERVER_ID=templ-dev
APP_BASE_URL=http://localhost:5173
# Optional: wire up Telegram notifications by providing a bot token.
# TELEGRAM_BOT_TOKEN=123456:bot-token-from-botfather
```

Terminal B:

```bash
npm --prefix backend start
```

The server listens on `http://localhost:3001`, verifies signatures, persists templ registrations in SQLite, and—if a `TELEGRAM_BOT_TOKEN` is supplied—posts contract events to chat ids registered for each templ.

## 3) Start the frontend

Terminal C:

```bash
npm --prefix frontend run dev
```

Open `http://localhost:5173`. The SPA provides dedicated routes for every core flow:

- `/templs/create` – deploy + register a templ (optionally include a Telegram chat id).
- `/templs/join` – purchase access and verify membership with the backend.
- `/templs/:address` – overview page with quick navigation to proposals.
- `/templs/:address/proposals/new` – create governance actions.
- `/templs/:address/proposals/:id/vote` – cast a YES/NO vote.

## 4) Load Hardhat wallets in your browser

Add the Hardhat network in MetaMask (or another injected wallet):

- RPC URL: `http://127.0.0.1:8545`
- Chain ID: `1337`
- Currency: ETH (test)

Commonly used accounts (private keys are from Hardhat defaults—never use them on mainnet):

| Role | Address | Private key |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Priest candidate | `0x90F79bf6EB2c4f870365E785982E1f101E93b906` | `0x7c852118294e51e653712a81e05800f419141751be58f605c371e15141b007a6` |
| Member | `0x15d34AAf54267DB7D7c367839AAf71A00a2C6A65` | `0x47e179ec197488593b187f80a00eb0da91f1b9f6191b7644aab4f9f0d0c5d938` |

(Refer to `hardhat.config.cjs` for the full list if you need additional wallets.)

## 5) Deploy and register a templ

1. Connect the priest wallet in the UI and navigate to `/templs/create`.
2. Fill in the form:
   - Factory address: the `TemplFactory` you deployed or the value from `VITE_TEMPL_FACTORY_ADDRESS`.
   - Access token address: any ERC-20 you control on the local chain (deploy `TestToken` via `npx hardhat console` if needed).
   - Entry fee / fee split / limits: pick values that satisfy on-chain validations (entry fee ≥ 10 wei and divisible by 10, fee split sums to 100).
   - Telegram chat id: optional numeric id; omit it if you don’t want Telegram alerts yet.
3. Submit—the frontend deploys the contract via the factory and immediately calls the backend `/templs` endpoint to persist the registry entry.
4. After success you land on `/templs/:address` where the overview reflects the registered priest and chat id.

## 6) Join and verify membership

1. Switch to the member wallet and open `/templs/join?address=<templAddress>`.
2. Use “Purchase Access” to approve + call `purchaseAccess` if you haven’t joined before.
3. Click “Verify Membership” to sign the EIP-712 payload and call the backend `/join` endpoint.
4. The response includes the templ metadata plus deep links (join, overview, proposals) derived from `APP_BASE_URL`.

## 7) Create proposals and vote

- `/templs/:address/proposals/new` lets any member raise actions such as pausing, changing the priest, updating fees, etc. Titles and descriptions are now stored on-chain and emitted in `ProposalCreated` events.
- `/templs/:address/proposals/:id/vote` submits `vote(proposalId, support)` transactions.
- If the templ was registered with a Telegram chat id, the backend will post:
  - Member joins (`AccessPurchased`)
  - Proposal creations (including title/description)
  - Votes (enriched with cached proposal titles)
  - Priest changes
  Each message links back to the relevant frontend route so members can take action quickly.
- `/templs/:address/claim` lets connected wallets see the raw member pool balance and call `claimMemberPool()`.

## Troubleshooting

- **CORS / origin errors** – ensure `ALLOWED_ORIGINS` in `backend/.env` matches the frontend origin.
- **Telegram messages not appearing** – confirm the bot is added to the group, the chat id is correct, and the backend logs show `notify*` calls. Missing `APP_BASE_URL` will omit deep links but shouldn’t block delivery.
- **Signature rejected** – delete `backend/groups.db` (or set `CLEAR_DB=1`) to clear old signatures if you changed `BACKEND_SERVER_ID` or reran the flow with stale payloads.
- **Contract reverts** – hardhat console logs will show revert reasons. Common issues are fee splits not summing to 100 or attempting to vote after the deadline.

You now have a full local environment for iterating on templ governance and Telegram notifications.

Commit message:

docs: sync contract and telegram guidance

docs/TEST_LOCALLY.md, after:

# Test Locally (Fast Path)

Spin up the full templ stack—Hardhat chain, Express backend, and React frontend—so you can deploy a templ, verify membership, and run proposals without relying on external services.

## Prerequisites

- Node.js ≥ 22.18.0
- `npm ci` already executed at the repo root
- One terminal per process (or a multiplexer such as tmux)

## 1) Start a local Hardhat chain

Terminal A:

```bash
npm run node
```

Hardhat exposes JSON-RPC on `http://127.0.0.1:8545` and pre-funds 20 deterministic accounts.

## 2) Configure & start the backend

Create `backend/.env`:

```env
RPC_URL=http://127.0.0.1:8545
ALLOWED_ORIGINS=http://localhost:5173
BACKEND_SERVER_ID=templ-dev
APP_BASE_URL=http://localhost:5173
# Optional: wire up Telegram notifications by providing a bot token.
# TELEGRAM_BOT_TOKEN=123456:bot-token-from-botfather
```

Terminal B:

```bash
npm --prefix backend start
```

The server listens on `http://localhost:3001`, verifies signatures, persists templ registrations in SQLite, and—if a `TELEGRAM_BOT_TOKEN` is supplied—posts contract events to chat ids registered for each templ.

## 3) Start the frontend

Terminal C:

```bash
npm --prefix frontend run dev
```

Open `http://localhost:5173`. The SPA provides dedicated routes for every core flow:

- `/templs/create` – deploy + register a templ (optionally include a Telegram chat id).
- `/templs/join` – purchase access and verify membership with the backend.
- `/templs/:address` – overview page with quick navigation to proposals.
- `/templs/:address/proposals/new` – create governance actions.
- `/templs/:address/proposals/:id/vote` – cast a YES/NO vote.

## 4) Load Hardhat wallets in your browser

Add the Hardhat network in MetaMask (or another injected wallet):

- RPC URL: `http://127.0.0.1:8545`
- Chain ID: `1337`
- Currency: ETH (test)

Commonly used accounts (private keys are from Hardhat defaults—never use them on mainnet):

| Role | Address | Private key |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Priest candidate | `0x90F79bf6EB2c4f870365E785982E1f101E93b906` | `0x7c852118294e51e653712a81e05800f419141751be58f605c371e15141b007a6` |
| Member | `0x15d34AAf54267DB7D7c367839AAf71A00a2C6A65` | `0x47e179ec197488593b187f80a00eb0da91f1b9f6191b7644aab4f9f0d0c5d938` |

(Refer to `hardhat.config.cjs` for the full list if you need additional wallets.)

## 5) Deploy and register a templ

1. Connect the priest wallet in the UI and navigate to `/templs/create`.
2. Fill in the form:
   - Factory address: the `TemplFactory` you deployed or the value from `VITE_TEMPL_FACTORY_ADDRESS`.
   - Access token address: any ERC-20 you control on the local chain (deploy `TestToken` via `npx hardhat console` if needed).
   - Entry fee / fee split / limits: pick values that satisfy on-chain validations (entry fee ≥ 10 wei and divisible by 10, fee split sums to 100).
   - Telegram chat id: optional numeric id; omit it if you don’t want Telegram alerts yet.
3. Submit—the frontend deploys the contract via the factory and immediately calls the backend `/templs` endpoint to persist the registry entry.
4. After success you land on `/templs/:address` where the overview reflects the registered priest, home link, and chat id. If you left the chat id blank, the confirmation card shows a one-time `templ <bindingCode>` snippet—post it in your Telegram group after inviting `@templfunbot` to finish the binding.

## 6) Join and verify membership

1. Switch to the member wallet and open `/templs/join?address=<templAddress>`.
2. Use “Purchase Access” to approve + call `purchaseAccess` if you haven’t joined before.
3. Click “Verify Membership” to sign the EIP-712 payload and call the backend `/join` endpoint.
4. The response includes the templ metadata plus deep links (join, overview, proposals) derived from `APP_BASE_URL`.

## 7) Create proposals and vote

- `/templs/:address/proposals/new` lets any member raise actions such as pausing, changing the priest, updating fees, etc. Titles and descriptions are now stored on-chain and emitted in `ProposalCreated` events.
- `/templs/:address/proposals/:id/vote` submits `vote(proposalId, support)` transactions.
- If the templ was registered with a Telegram chat id, the backend will post:
  - Member joins (`AccessPurchased`)
  - Proposal creations (including title/description)
  - Votes (enriched with cached proposal titles)
  - Priest changes
  Each message links back to the relevant frontend route so members can take action quickly.
- `/templs/:address/claim` lets connected wallets see the raw member pool balance and call `claimMemberPool()`.

## Troubleshooting

- **CORS / origin errors** – ensure `ALLOWED_ORIGINS` in `backend/.env` matches the frontend origin.
- **Telegram messages not appearing** – confirm the bot is added to the group, the chat id is correct, and the backend logs show `notify*` calls. Missing `APP_BASE_URL` will omit deep links but shouldn’t block delivery.
- **Signature rejected** – delete `backend/groups.db` (or set `CLEAR_DB=1`) to clear old signatures if you changed `BACKEND_SERVER_ID` or reran the flow with stale payloads.
- **Contract reverts** – hardhat console logs will show revert reasons. Common issues are fee splits not summing to 100 or attempting to vote after the deadline.

You now have a full local environment for iterating on templ governance and Telegram notifications.
